Kanye Omari West is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, 
entrepreneur, and fashion designer. His musical career has been marked by dramatic 
changes in styles, incorporating an eclectic range of influences including soul, 
baroque pop, electro, indie rock, synth-pop, industrial, and gospel. Over the 
course of his career, West has been responsible for cultural movements and 
progressions within mainstream hip hop and popular music at large.

Born in Atlanta and raised in Chicago, West first became known as a producer for 
Roc-A-Fella Records in the early 2000s, producing singles for recording artists 
such as Jay-Z, Ludacris and Alicia Keys. Intent on pursuing a solo career as a 
rapper, West released his debut album The College Dropout in 2004 to widespread 
critical and commercial success, and founded the record label GOOD Music. He went 
on to experiment with a variety of musical genres on subsequent acclaimed studio 
albums, including Late Registration (2005), Graduation (2007), and the polarizing 
but influential 808s & Heartbreak (2008). He released his fifth album My Beautiful 
Dark Twisted Fantasy in 2010 to further rave reviews, and has since succeeded it 
with Yeezus (2013), The Life of Pablo (2016) and Ye (2018), as well as full-length 
collaborations Watch the Throne (2011) and Kids See Ghosts (2018) with Jay-Z and 
Kid Cudi respectively.

West's outspoken views and life outside of music have received significant media 
attention. He has been a frequent source of controversy for his conduct at award 
shows, on social media, and in other public settings, as well as his comments on 
the music and fashion industries, U.S. politics, and race. His marriage to 
television personality Kim Kardashian has also been a source of substantial media 
attention. As a fashion designer, he has collaborated with Nike, Louis Vuitton, and 
A.P.C. on both clothing and footwear, and have most prominently resulted in the 
Yeezy collaboration with Adidas beginning in 2013. He is the founder and head of 
the creative content company DONDA.

West is among the most critically acclaimed musicians of the 21st century and one 
of the best-selling music artists of all time with over 135 million records sold 
worldwide.[3] He has won a total of 21 Grammy Awards, making him one of the most 
awarded artists of all time and the most Grammy-awarded artist of his 
generation.[4] Three of his albums have been included and ranked on Rolling Stone's 
2012 update of the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time" list and he ties with Bob 
Dylan for having topped the annual Pazz & Jop critic poll the most number of times 
ever, with four number-one albums each. Time magazine named him one of the 100 most 
influential people in the world in 2005 and 2015.